---
title: FTP Service
sidebar: mydoc_sidebar
permalink: ftp-service.html
folder: mydoc
---

It is possible that you do not have data locally located on the server on which BlobCity is running, but you would like to load this data into BlobCity. The database supports and in- build FTP service. This allows you to use the built-in BlobCity service to upload large chunks of files onto a server running BlobCity. The data is then accessible to the BlobCity cluster and can be imported into the database.

The FTP service is also useful for downloading any data exported by BlobCity. Any export performed is stored on the file system on the server on which BlobCity is running. Such data is accessible via FTP. The data export will work even if the FTP service is disabled and you can pick up the data directly from the server’s file system. If you would like to pick up such data over FTP, then you would have to enable the FTP service.

You can use a client like FileZilla or any other valid FTP client to connect to the FTP server.

Cloud users need to use the FTP service for any data upload or download. Without FTP the only other option for cloud users to import and export data is via the REST Web Services.

The IP address for the FTP service will be the IP of the server on which you start the FTP service. Cloud users must use one of the following for accessing the FTP server.


```
{data-center-id}.dbftp.blobcity.com
dbftp.blobcity.com
port: 2221
```

Use `{data-centre-id}` if you choose to connect to a specific data centre. If you have not chosen any specific data centre at time of account setup, then use `dbftp.blobcity.com` to use automatic routing to the best performing data centre.

The port number used for FTP operations on all servers is `2221`.

The FTP service is always started on a per datastore basis. The username for connecting to the FTP service is the name of the datastore itself. The password is auto-generated by the database and provide at the time of starting the FTP service. You will have to start the FTP service independently for each datastore you choose to use it for.

To start and stop the FTP service look at the `start-ds-ftp` and `stop-ds-ftp` commands in CLI and REST services.

{% include links.html %}
